Hadlar: A shield
around the island.
He's always been clever.
Here we go-
Puff!
[roaring]
Dai: A dragon?
That really is some spell.
It's called Puff!
It's an ancient mythical
battle enchantment.
I never thought
I'd see it myself.
He's bigger than the one
from the Golden Cylinder.
Avan: Dragons are
the most powerful
in all of the monster kingdom.
Only a true Hero could face
such a creature and survive...
Let alone defeat it!
Avan: It's time to
prove yourself, Dai.
Brass: This is too dangerous!
Stay back, Grampa! Please.
[roaring]
Avan: I warned you...
Dragon's skin is harder
than Papnica steel.
Fine, then...
Guess I'm gonna to
have to play rough.
How about an Earth Slash!
Avan: You won't win this battle
with brute strength alone!
[pained yell]
Dai!
[panicked chirping]
No, no. That's not right.
[startled yelp]
What's with you?!
Don't scare me like that!
Look - just relax.
I'm not training
to compete with Dai
or anything dumb,
all right?
I want to be absolutely
clear on that point...
I don't know what sorta crazy
training he's doing today...
[chirping]
Master Avan...
What about him, little guy?
[shocked gasp]
What?!
He didn't!
How could he really
think that's a good idea?
Dai can barely even cast
a simple Crack spell!
There's no way he'll be able
to stop Dragon's fire so soon!
Brass: Dai!
I'm fine.
Listen, that's enough!
I've got this, Grampa.
Dai [thought]: That Earth Slash
didn't even leave a scratch...
I'll need something else if
I want to beat Dragon's fire.
Avan: Slice the earth, slice
the sea, and slice the air.
The Avan Style Sword Technique
uses these three elements
as its foundation.
Yesterday, you acquired
the Earth Slash,
so you've mastered
slicing solid objects...
Now it's time for you
to learn your next attack:
the Wave Slash.
Agility is the
key to this one.
It takes great speed
to slice the sea.
A water attack should
put out a fire, right?
Well, let's give it a shot...
Slice the sea!
Dai: Avan Style
Sword Technique...
Avan: Ah, I see
you're catching on...
You've got the wits,
but do you have the speed?
Popp: Oh, boy...
[snarling]
Popp: Dai - don't do it!
Now! Wave Slash!
Stop!
Popp: He sliced
through the fire?!
[pained roar]
[whimpering]
Oh, Master...
Dai!
Told you I had it.
You okay over there,
Master Avan?
Avan: It really stings.
You're lucky that's
all the damage, sir...
Isn't using Puff for
training a little extreme?
Popp: You could've
burned Dai to a crisp.
Avan: It was a risk...
But didn't you notice how when
Dai defeated that Gargoyle
he also managed
to split the ocean?
Well, it gave me a hunch
that he might be able to
pull off Wave Slash right away.
You can't just risk
somebody's life on a hunch!
Avan: Well, I'm the one
who almost lost his nose.
Were you really that
worried about Dai?
No... Of course not.
If Earth Slash was
a test of strength,
then Wave Slash was
one of speed...
Avan: You already had
both in spades, Dai...
But all your hard work
these past few days
seems to be taking you
to a whole new level.
So the attack that
cuts through water
can also smother
a fire, huh?
Yes, sir. Wave Slash works
on anything formless.
Fire's just as
formless as water.
Correct!
A warrior who masters this
skill can fend off his enemies
by slashing everything from
an inferno to blizzard.
This is incredible.
No one's ever
learned it so quickly.
At this rate...
I'm certain that
Dai will complete
the Special Hard Course!
[pained cry]
Avan: It still stings!
Maybe you should ice it.
A mild Crack spell would work.
Avan: Good thinking.
Perhaps Dai should cast it.
Yeah! He needs the practice.
Dai: Crack!
Avan: A very nice size, too!
Dai: Just "nice"?
What are you saying?
[chuckling]
Avan: I must say, I'm quite
embarrassed with myself.
So, what brings
you here Popp...
Have you decided to join us?
Uh, this thing dragged
me here against my will.
Dai: What? You found him
training all by himself?
Come on.
Don't!
Dai: Really? He thinks
you're jealous.
Popp: Hey! Knock it off!
I told you-
it's not about that!
[laughing]
[startled grunts]
Earthquake?
It might be a
volcanic eruption...
No. Something worse.
It's the magic circle...
Someone must be
trying to breach it,
and whoever it is,
they're incredibly powerful.
Both: What?!
But who could it be?
Well, that's pretty
obvious, isn't it?
The dark lord's
henchmen must be
losing their
patience out there.
Popp: The magic circle
only repels the bad guys!
Avan: He's right...
But an ordinary monster
wouldn't be able to
set foot inside it...
Could it be?
Uh... Did they give up?
It's coming.
Huh?!
It's something
really strong...
And it definitely doesn't
feel like a good guy.
Brass: [groaning]
Dai: Grampa, what's wrong?
I-I'd recognize this terrible
energy anywhere. It's him.
Then it's true...
I'd really hoped it
wouldn't come to this.
[nervous gasp]
[delighted chuckle]
Hadlar: Was that magic circle
your idea of a practical joke?
So, you've really
returned... Hadlar.
Hadlar?!
Oh... We're toast.
Avan: The Dark Lord.
Hadlar... The Dark Lord?
[terrified yell]
It's him, Dai.
No doubt.
Brass: I'd never
forget that awful face.
But somehow he looks younger
and stronger than I remember.
He's overflowing
with evil power!
[powerful grunt]
[chuckling]
Been a while...
Hero Avan.
[shocked gasps]
You're the Hero?
Why didn't you tell us?
Avan; long ago, you thwarted
all of my ambitions...
You even cost me
my very existence.
Hadlar: That's
not the kind of
pain and humiliation
one forgets.
But now, I'm here
to return it.
You've taken hundreds
of innocent human lives.
What you got was justice.
Such an idealist.
Compared to a
Darkling like me,
human beings
are without value.
My life is worth
more than thousands,
if not millions of you vermin!
Still the same.
In fact, you might
be even more disgusting
than the last time I saw you.
I've grown tired
of your Hero antics.
That's why I
knew your name!
It was you. You're the
legendary warrior!
You defeated the Dark Lord,
and brought peace to
every kingdom in the land!
Didn't you, Master Avan?
Dai: Is it true, Master?
That was a long time ago.
Boys, you'd better stand back.
Not a chance!
We'll fight him with you!
You'll lose!
Come on. You too, gramps.
Wait!
Master Avan needs our help!
Don't be a coward, Popp.
Don't be a fool!
The only thing you
and I would do here,
Dai, is get in his way.
I can't believe he's really
the one who defeated
the Dark Lord.
Oh, man...
I seriously chose the
wrong person to train under!
Hadlar: I understand
you've gone into teaching...
If those two are your
students, then I have to ask:
For warriors of justice,
don't you think
they're a little small?
Well for someone who's dead,
don't you think you're
a little chatty?
Have it your way.
Boom!
Avan: You know,
I'm glad that you decided
to come here yourself.
Now I can defeat you again
and clear the darkness
shrouding this world.
What nonsense.
Sizzle!
[pained screaming]
Both: Yes!
[cackling]
-What?
-How?
[roaring laughter]
Such a joke, Avan.
Hadlar: Hilarious!
But... how?
You've grown arrogant, Hero.
Heat and explosion
spells are my forte!
Did you actually think
you could put me down
with such a tiny ember?
Hadlar: Watch and learn...
This is how it's
really done. Now burn!
Sizzle!
Avan: Wave Slash!
Dai: Master!
Avan: Impressive power...
You're even stronger than the
last time we fought, Hadlar...
But, how?
[amused chuckle]
You really want to know?
Because I promise you
won't like my answer.
And if I'm being honest,
I'm going to miss you
calling me the Dark Lord.
What's that supposed to mean?
It's not like I
resurrected myself.
But now I serve
the ruler who did.
Hadlar: And he was
generous enough to
bestow upon me with more
power than you can imagine.
-Oh, no...
-What?
Wait, wait, wait - is he saying
there's a new Dark Lord?
Tell me...
Who is it?!
The Dark King... Vearn.
There's a Dark King?!
Vearn?!
Hadlar: That's right!
He is a mighty god
of the Underworld.
After you defeated me,
I was brought
before his throne...
And he gave me a
glorious new purpose.
God of the Underworld?
Hadlar: I had to slumber for
over a decade before he could
replenish the energy
you robbed me of,
but after he raised me,
I pledged my allegiance.
As a reward, he gave me
control over his Dark Army,
and a place at his right hand.
So you see,
I can't call myself
the Dark Lord, anymore...
But I am the Dark Commander!
Unbelievable...
How do we beat someone
stronger than this guy?
That's the point...
We can't. The whole
world's doomed!
Hadlar: You can fight,
but I guarantee it's hopeless.
My new master is an
omnipotent God of Dark...
And his armies are greater
than your wildest nightmares-
stronger than mine
could ever have been!
There's nothing you can do...
Humanity's destiny
is extinction.
But... how...
Hadlar: It's been
fifteen years,
but I'm sure you still
remember my offer, Avan.
So here's your second chance.
I can still make your
troubles disappear...
All you have
to do is join me.
Hadlar: And if you do,
I'll even let you
rule half the world.
Well, now...
It almost looks like you're
sensing your own defeat.
Hadlar: Perhaps this time
you'll be more reasonable.
I refuse!
The same stubborn Avan.
Unable to see mercy
when it's being given.
Avan: You have no
clue what mercy is.
Besides, if I did agree...
I know you'd still
turn on me eventually.
Don't be so certain.
Avan: Either way,
I doubt you have the authority
to offer me anything.
You're not the
Dark Lord anymore-
you're just a servant.
[fuming]
Hadlar: I'm a commander.
How dare you?!
Servant - you'll regret calling
me that, you little punk.
Seems I've struck
a nerve - haven't I?
Silence, mortal!
Instead of sparing you...
I'll make your students
watch as I turn you to ash.
That's the strongest
Explosion Spell there is...
A Kaboom!
Master, watch out!
I know that stance.
Eat this...
Kaboom!
Avan Strash!
Dai: Master?
He got him!
[impressed chuckle]
Ah, yes.
I was wondering when you
were going to do that...
The Avan Strash took
my life the last time...
However...
[shocked gasps]
It appears my resurrected
form has the edge.
And since you won't join me,
it's time for
the legend to end.
Dai: Master Avan!
Slow down - what do
you think you're doing?
I'm gonna fight him!
Are you out of your mind?
How do you expect to beat
someone even Master Avan can't?
Because I didn't blow all my
energy casting Puff earlier.
He needs a hand, Popp.
Let me go!
He's right.
I've heard stories that Puff
can take three or four times
the amount of Magic Power
that goes into a normal spell.
Oh, great.
Hey!
Hadlar: You've
grown weak, Avan.
Or maybe...
This is simply the limit
of what you pitiful little
humans are capable of.
Hadlar: Allow me to
ease your suffering.
Enough!
You want to join your
teacher, little one?
Hadlar: Here's a lesson!
C'mon, Dai...
[gasp]
Dai!
That... Hurt... A lot.
Hadlar: You children
mean nothing to me.
If you want to live,
get out of my sight.
Popp: Th-Thank you.
Excuse us!
Hadlar: Really...
Blood? But...
That's impossible.
That little brat's blade
shouldn't have
even left a scratch.
Hold it right there.
Popp: Something wrong?
[scared yell]
Hadlar: I've changed my mind.
It seems as though Avan's
students are too powerful
to be left alive after all.
I'll make it quick.
Popp! Dai!
Sizzle!
No!
Dai: Master Avan!
Narrator: The resurrected Dark
Lord's power is overwhelming.
And even though Avan
defeated him once before,
the master finds himself
backed into a corner.
But when Dai sees his teacher
willing to sacrifice himself
to save the world and defend
the lives of his students,
his powers awaken once again.
The battle rages on...
So make sure not to
miss the next episode of
Dragon Quest:
The Adventure of Dai,
"The Insignia of Avan".